# mt01

## 1.
Consider $$x(t)=10\sqrt{2}\text{sinc}(t)\cos{(2\pi10^5t)}-10\sqrt{2}\text{sinc}{(t+1)}\sin{(2\pi10^5t)}$$ Assume $$f_c=10^5$$.

**(a)** Find the baseband equivalent signal, $$x_z(t)$$.

**(b)** Find the Fourier transform of $$x_z(t)$$.

**(c)** Find the Fourier transform of $$x_c(t)$$.

**(d)** Find the energy of $$x_c(t)$$.

**(e)** Plot the energy spectral density of $$x_z(t)$$.

**(f)** Find the $$3\:\text{dB}$$ bandwidth of $$x_z(t)$$.


## 2.
Let
$$
m(t)=\sum_{n=-\infty}^{\infty}{\frac{1}{2}\text{sinc}\left(\frac{n}{2}\right)}e^{je\pi{n}t10^3}
$$

**(a)** Can you find another expression for $$m(t)$$ in terms of a pulse train? If so, sketch it.

**(b)** Recognizing that $$\text{sinc}{\left(\frac{n}{2}\right)}=\text{sinc}{\left(−\tfrac{n}{2}\right)}$$, write $$m(t)$$ as a sum of cosines.

**(c)** Find the Hilbert transform of $$m(t)$$,  $$\hat{m}(t)$$

**(d)** Write an expression for the baseband equivalent Single-sideband transmission of the signal, $$x_z(t)$$.

**(e)** Write an expression for the passband (also known as bandpass)
of ingle-sideband transmission of the signal, $$x_c(t)$$.


## 3.
Consider the signal $$m(t)=4\cos{(2\pi{f}_mt)}$$.

**(a)** Find a value for $$a$$ such that $$1+am(t)$$ is always positive.

**(b)** For AM radio modulation why does $$1+am(t)$$ need to be positive?

**(c)** Given your value of $$a$$, what percent of the transmit power is devoted to the message signal?

**(d)** Explain why we still use AM radio transmission even though it’s power inefficient.

## 4.
Suppose you are routing a call from San Francisco to Paris.
You have the following options:
- You can route directly from San Francisco to Paris via Satellite but the probability of error is $$0.1$$.
- You can route from San Francisco to New York via cables with a probability of error of $$0.05$$ and then from New York to Paris via Satellite with a probability of $$0.025$$.

**(a)** Which route do you choose and why?

**(b)** Suppose it takes 10 milliseconds to send the signal via Satellite directly to Paris. If the route fails, you can resend, but each time you resend that’s another 10 ms. What is the expected time it takes to send to Paris directly?

