# mt02

## 1.
Suppose you have a signal, $$m(t)$$ with power spectral density, $$S_m(f)=\sqcap{(f)}+\sqcap{\left(\tfrac{f}{2}\right)}$$.

**(a)** Sketch the power spectral density.

**(b)** What is the average power of the signal?

**(c)** How would you find the $$10\:\text{dB}$$ bandwidth? If you don’t have time, just show me how.

**(d)** How would you find the $$90\%$$ bandwidth? Again just show.


## 2.
Suppose you have passband noise $$n_c(t)=\sqrt{2}n_I(t)\cos{(2\pi{f}_ct)}−\sqrt{2}n_Q(t)\sin{(2\pi{f}_ct)}$$ where $$S_{n_c}{(f)}=0.01\sqcap{\left(\frac{f-f_c}{2W}\right)}+0.01\sqcap{\left(\frac{f+f_c}{2W}\right)}$$.

**(a)** What is the average power of the passband noise?

**(b)** Find the correlation function of $$R_{n_c}(\tau)$$

**(c)** What is the correlation function of the in-phase noise $$R_{N_I}(\tau)$$?


## 3.
Suppose you have a baseband signal $$Am(t)+n_I(t)$$ where $$m(t)$$ has the power spectral density $$S_m(f)=0.1\sqcap{\left(\frac{f}{10^4}\right)}+\sqcap{\left(\frac{f}{10^3}\right)}$$. $$S_{n_I}(f)=0.1$$.

**(a)** Suppose your receiver has a low-pass filter with $$H_1\left(f\right)=\sqcap{\left(\tfrac{f}{10^4}\right)}$$. Find the SNR of the received signal.

**(b)** Suppose your receiver has a low-pass filter with $$H_2\left(f\right)=\sqcap{\left(\tfrac{f}{10^3}\right)}$$ Find the SNR of the received signal.

**(c)** Which filter do you think is better and why?


## 4.
You have a digital communications system with 2 possible signals.
$$
\begin{align*}
x_0(t)&=\frac{1}{\sqrt{T}}\text{sinc}\left(\frac{t}{T}\right)\\
x_1(t)&=-\frac{1}{\sqrt{T}}\text{sinc}\left(\frac{t}{T}\right)
\end{align*}
$$

**(a)** How many bits of information can you send at one time in this system?

**(b)** Can you write $$x_i(t)=c_kp(t)$$? Find values for $$c_k$$ and an expression for $$p(t)$$.

**(c)** Suppose you transmit $$x_0(t)=\tfrac{1}{\sqrt{T}}\text{sinc}\left(\tfrac{t}{T}\right)$$ and receive $$y(t)=x_0(t)+n(t)$$ where $$n(t)$$ is AWGN with power spectral density $$S_n(f)=0.1$$.

*(i)* Describe how you would digitally demodulate the signal.

*(ii)* What would be the probability of error of this system?


## 5.
Given that capacity (the maximum achievable rate is) $$W\log_2{(1+\text{SNR})}$$,

**(a)** Which would you rather have in terms of bit rate, twice the bandwidth or twice the power? Justify your answer

**(b)** Suppose your cable modem for your home has a total capacity of $$20\:\tfrac{\text{Mb}}{\text{s}}$$. Four people live at your home and all use the cable modem.  What sort of situations could cause a big loss in rate?

